Loaded Pizza Nachos with Creamy Garlic White Sauce
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
For the Pizza Crust Chips:
2 pounds frozen pizza dough, thawed
2 tablespoons olive oil
Kosher salt, to taste
For the Toppings:
8 ounces casing­less Italian sausage
½ small onion, finely chopped
1 green bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and finely chopped
2 ounces baby mushrooms, finely chopped
1 cup marinara
1 pound shredded Italian cheeses
6 ounces thick­sliced pepperoni
For the Creamy Garlic White Sauce:
3 tablespoons butter
6 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons flour
¾ cups cream or milk
¼ cups parmesan cheese, grated
½ teaspoon dried oregano
Kosher salt, to taste
Fresh basil, cut into ribbons (optional)
Directions
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
2. Roll the pizza dough out until very thin and even. Brush the top of the dough with olive oil and sprinkle liberally
with sea salt. Transfer the dough to the prepared baking sheets.
3. Bake the dough until golden, rotating if necessary. The timing will vary depending on your dough, so be sure
to check often to see when the crust is ready.
4. Allow the pizza crust to cool slightly and cut into triangles. Set aside.
5. Meanwhile, cook up the toppings. In a large skillet over medium­high heat, crumble the sausage. Cook the
sausage, stirring and breaking it up occasionally, until browned and cooked through. Transfer the cooked
sausage crumbles to a bowl and set aside, but leave the oils from the sausage in the skillet.
6. Add the onion, green pepper, and mushrooms to the skillet and cook over medium heat until softened, about
10 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.
7. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Stir in the garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30
seconds to a minute. Add in the flour, whisking constantly, until paste­like in consistency and beginning to
turn golden. Whisk in the cream or milk until thick and smooth. The mixture will thicken as it cooks so don't
worry if it's too liquidy at first. Stir in the parmesan cheese, dried oregano, and salt to taste. Allow to thicken,
stirring constantly, and then set aside.
8. Increase the oven temperature to 400°F. Spread the chips evenly over a baking sheet. Evenly distribute the
sausage and the mushroom mixture, saving a tiny bit for adding on the very top. Spoon over some marinara,
and sprinkle some of the mozzarella over top. Using a ladle, pour the creamy garlic white sauce over the
pizza nachos. Top with additional cheese, pepperoni, and remaining toppings, as desired.
9. Bake until the cheese has entirely melted and the pepperoni begins to crisp, about 4­5 minutes. Serve warm,
topped with fresh basil.
Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/loaded-pizza-nachos-with-creamy-garlic-white-sauce/