THE BAKED BROWNIE
YIELD: 24 brownies
PREP: 30 minutes
COOK: 30 minutes
TOTAL: 1 hour
Totally famous and for good reason – they are rich, dense, fudge-like brownies; you’ll never need another brownie recipe!

INGREDIENTS:
1¼ cups (177 grams) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt (~2-3 g with salted butter)
2 tablespoons (~10g) unsweetened cocoa powder (natural or Dutch-process will work)
11 ounces (310 grams) dark chocolate, coarsely chopped (200g dark + 100g Fazer blue)
1 cup (227 grams) unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder (optional) (half might be better)
1½ cups (298 grams) granulated sugar
½ cup (99 grams) packed light brown sugar
5 eggs, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
desired amount of nuts
DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 175 degrees C. Butter the sides and bottom of a 9×13-inch glass or light-colored baking pan. Line the pan with parchment paper.
+ toast nuts, remove loose skin and crush them between two plates
In a medium bowl, whisk the flour, salt, and cocoa powder together.
Put the chocolate, butter and instant espresso powder in a large heat-proof bowl and set it over a saucepan of simmering water, stirring occasionally, until the chocolate and butter are completely melted and smooth. Turn off the heat, but keep the bowl over the water and add the sugars. Whisk until completely combined, then remove the bowl from the pan. The mixture should be room temperature.
Add 3 eggs to the chocolate mixture and whisk until combined. Add the remaining eggs and whisk until combined. Add the vanilla and stir until combined. Do not overbeat the batter at this stage or your brownies will be cakey.
Sprinkle the flour mixture over the chocolate mixture. Using a rubber spatula (not a whisk), fold the flour mixture into the chocolate until just a bit of the flour mixture is visible.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake, rotating the pan halfway through baking, until a toothpick inserted into the center of the brownies comes out with a few moist crumbs sticking to it, about 30 minutes. Let the brownies cool completely in the pan, then lift them out of the pan using the parchment paper. Cut into squares and serve. Store at room temperature in an airtight container or wrap with plastic wrap for up to 3 days.
This delicious recipe brought to you by Brown Eyed Baker 
https://www.browneyedbaker.com/the-baked-brownie/

Notes:
- 60 mins 45 cut
	* internal 96C (
	* at 50 mins had slight cracks and temp of 88C, still seemed loose in the center
	* ~1cm edge
	* slightly burned edges
	* pretty bad initial 11 bite
	* initial 22 bite seemed bit cakey
	* 12 next day better but slightly dry
	* 23 very good
	* In conclusion, slightly overcooked. Next time sligtly less time or heat + maybe try bottom heat (now top had more dry edge)
	* ~150g of pecans is not too much (could be increased for extra nutty brownie)