Two-Minute Aioli

YIELD:
Makes about 1 cup
ACTIVE TIME:
2 minutes
TOTAL TIME:
2 minutes
    
Classic aioli is made with nothing but garlic and olive oil pounded in a mortar and pestle. Our updated version uses egg yolks to help bind the sauce along with a hand blender to make it 100% foolproof and extremely quick.

The hand blender allows you to add all the ingredients for the emulsion at once, using the power of its vortex to slowly incorporate oil.
Whisking in the extra virgin olive oil by hand preserves its fresh flavor.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT:
hand blender with a cup that just fits its head
NOTES:
Use the best quality extra-virgin olive oil you can find but do not be tempted to add it directly to the hand blender cup—it will turn bitter. If you don't have an immersion blender with a cup, you can make the aioli in a food processor. Combine the egg, garlic, and lemon juice in a food processor. With the machine running, slowly drizzle in the canola or light olive oil, scraping down the sides as necessary. Transfer the half-finished aioli to a bowl and proceed with step two.
INGREDIENTS
1 whole egg
4 medium cloves garlic, minced
2 teaspoons juice from 1 lemon
1/2 cup canola, vegetable, or light olive oil oil
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
DIRECTIONS
1. Place egg, garlic, and lemon juice in the bottom of an immersion blender cup. Pour oil on top and allow to settle for 15 seconds. Place head of immersion blender at bottom of cup and switch it on. As aioli forms, slowly tilt and lift the head of the immersion blender until all oil is emulsified. (For food processor instructions, see note above).
2. Transfer aioli to a medium bowl. Whisking constantly, slowly drizzle in extra-virgin olive oil. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Store in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to two weeks.

Optionally add 3 tablespoons of harissa paste.

http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/01/print/two-minute-foolproof-aioli-recipe.html
http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/06/print/harissa-aioli-recipe.html