Browned Butter Financiers	

24 mini sized financiers (~7 regular sized)

For financiers, I use mini-muffin tins, which are easily available. I'm not a fan of silicone bakeware but know that some people like it. This batter is pretty forgiving so can be baked in madeleine molds or even in larger muffin tins, filling them only about halfway. If you use another size mold, you'll likely need to adjust the baking time; bake them until browned on top, and the feel just set in the center when you touch them.As mentioned, I made these with leftover brown butter from the Brown Butter Old Fashioned recipe. I started with 4 ounces (8 tablespoons/115g) of butter, which yielded the amount called for in the recipe. If starting from scratch, and making your own brown butter, start with that amount of brown butter, then you can measure it out when it's browned and cooled. (If you need a bit more butter, you can simply add a bit of melted butter to it, to reach the 2 1/2 oz/75g amount. There are links at the end of the post with detailed instructions on making brown butter.

1 cup (140g) almond or hazelnut flour
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (180g) sugar
5 tablespoons (45g) flour
generous pinch salt
4 large egg whites, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or almond extract
2 1/2 ounces (75g) brown butter, slightly warm (liquified) 
(94g of butter seems to be the correct amount to brown)

1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF/180ºC and butter the insides of 24 mini muffin tins generously with softened, not melted, butter, making sure the butter the upper rims of the indentations.
2. In a medium bowl, mix the almond or hazelnut powder, sugar, flour and salt. Stir in the egg whites and vanilla or almond extract, then the browned butter.
3. Fill each indentation of the mini muffin tins almost to the top. Rap the tins sharply on the counter to level the tops, then bake for 13 minutes (~23 mins for regular sized muffins), until nicely browned. Let the financiers cool in the tins, then remove them, using a sharp knife to help release them, if necessary.

Storage: The financiers can be stored in an air-tight container for up to one week. They can be frozen for up to two months.

Notes:
- Vanilla + hazelnut seems better than almond + almond
- Don't fill full size tins all the way (might not cook fully)

https://www.davidlebovitz.com/brown-pastry-browned-butter-financiers-recipe-french/