Mocha Hazelnut Ugly-But-Good Cookies (Brutti Ma Buoni)
Adapted, a little, from Baked: Occasions

This is another one of those recipes (a theme of late) that seems to have a language gap, wherein the ones written in English largely seem to advocate a single baking (as we will here) but the ones one can view translated from Italian insist they should be cooked twice. As I really enjoy the texture that comes from a single bake, I didn’t test them out further. You can definitely fire me over this; just please let me take the cookies home with me.

Yield: 36 cookies

1 1/2 cups hazelnuts
1 cup granulated sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon fine sea or table salt
4 large egg whites
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder (optional)
8 ounces (about 1 1/3 cups) miniature chocolate chips or bittersweet chocolate, chopped small

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Place hazelnuts on a baking sheet and toast in oven for 10 minutes, rolling around once to ensure they cook evenly. Check the color; I believe that they taste best when toasted to a real golden color. Put them back in for 2 minutes at a time and check again if they’re not there yet. Let cool completely. (Putting the tray outside in winter for all of 5 minutes does the trick.) Place nuts in a dishtowel and roll them around so that the skins largely come off. Reduce heat to 300 degrees F.

Transfer toasted, peeled hazelnuts to a food processor and add 1/4 cup sugar and the salt. Grind until they reach your desired consistency; I went for well-chopped but not fully powdery.

In a large bowl, beat egg whites with an electric mixer until very foamy. Slowly pour in remaining 3/4 cup sugar, beating the whole time. Beat until stiff peaks form; when you lift the beater, they should flop over slightly after forming a peak. Fold in nuts, espresso powder (if using) and chocolate.

Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Scoop batter into about 1 1/2 tablespoon mounds with about an inch of space between them. Bake for 25 minutes, until very faintly golden. Let cool on baking sheet for 5 to 10 minutes, after which they’ll be easier to remove with a thin spatula. Let finish cooling on racks.

Cookies keep at room temperature in an airtight container for a week, but only if you don’t tell anyone they’re there.

http://smittenkitchen.com/blog/2016/01/ugly-but-good-cookies/