Salted Caramel Ice Cream in Chocolate Covered Kettle Chip Cookie Bowls
Author: Morgan
Ice cream adapted from Epicurious
Ingredients
For the Salted Caramel Ice Cream:
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided
2¼ cups heavy cream, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon large grain sea salt
1 cup whole milk
3 large eggs
For the Chocolate Covered Kettle Chip Cookie Bowls:
¾ cup crushed kettle chips
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
½ cup granulated sugar, plus more to top
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
3 teaspoons shortening, divided
½ cup white chocolate chips
Additional whole kettle chips, to garnish
Directions
1. In a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, heat 1 cup of the sugar. Stir occasionally until the sugar begins to
soften and melt, and then stop stirring entirely. It is very important not to continue to stir after the sugar has
started to melt! Instead, swirl the pan occasionally to allow the sugar to caramelize evenly. It is ready when it
reaches an amber color.
2. Heat 1¼ cups of the cream in the microwave for 30 seconds or until hot, but not boiling. Slowly stir into the
caramel until completely combined.
3. Pour the prepared caramel into a heat­proof bowl and mix in the vanilla extract and sea salt. Set aside.
4. In a small saucepan, bring the milk, cup of cream, and 2 tablespoons of sugar to a gentle boil.
5. In a separate medium­sized bowl, whisk the eggs. Slowly whisk in about half of the warm milk mixture.Then
pour the egg and milk mixture back into the saucepan, stirring constantly until it thickens into a custard that
coats the back of a spoon.
6. Pour the mixutre into a large bowl through a fine­mesh sieve, in order to strain out any lumps. Pour in the
caramel and mix well to combine.
7. Cover and chill until very cold, 4­6 hours.
8. Meanwhile, make the cookies. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Flip a muffin tin upside down and tightly mold
aluminum foil around the raised sections. Set aside.
9. Pour the crushed kettle chip pieces into a food processor and process until the crumb is small and mostly
even in size, if desired. Set aside.
10. In a large bowl, beat the butter and sugar together until light and creamy. Add the vanilla extract and beat
again, to combine. Stir in the crushed kettle chips and flour until evenly combined, making sure not to overmix.
11. Shape the dough into tablespoon­sized balls, and then flatten over the top of every other foil­covered muffin
dome. You want to only place the dough on every other dome in order to give the cookie dough enough space
to expand. Gently and evenly press the dough about halfway down the sides of each muffin dome to form
bowl­like shapes. They will spread slightly as they cook, so be sure to leave space. Sprinkle the tops and
sides with additional sugar, patting it gently onto the dough if necessary.
12. Bake the cookies until golden, about 12 minutes. Let cool on the tin for 3­5 minutes, then remove from the
muffin tin and set aside to cool completely. Repeat until all of the cookie bowls have been baked.
13. In a microwave safe bowl, microwave the semisweet chocolate chips and 2 teaspoons of shortening together
for a minute. Stir well until melted, microwaving in additional 15 second intervals if necessary. Dip the cookie
bowl rims into the chocolate to coat, or drizzle over the rims using a squeeze bottle or the tines of a fork.
14. In another microwave safe bowl, microwave the white chocolate chips and the remaining teaspoon of
shortening for a minute, then stir until melted. Drizzle over the cookie bowl rims and set aside to let cool and
harden.
15. If desired, dip whole kettle chips in any leftover chocolate, to use as garnish. Set aside.
16. Once the ice cream has cooled enough, freeze it in an ice cream maker according to factory directions.
Transfer the soft ice cream to a loaf pan. Cover and freeze until firm enough to serve.
17. Scoop the ice cream into the bowls and top with whipped cream, cherries, and chocolate covered kettle chips. Serve.

Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/salted-caramel-ice-cream-i/