Almond Chocolate Biscotti

Ingredients

2 Cups or 240g All Purpose Flour

Extra All Purpose Flour, for flouring working surface

3/4 Cup or 150g Granulated White Sugar

1 and 1/4 Teaspoons or 5g Baking Powder

1/4 Teaspoon or 1g Table Salt

1 Teaspoon Vanilla Extract

3 Large Eggs, each weighing about 55g, Room Temperature

150g Almonds, Blanched and Coarsely Chopped

150g Semisweet Chocolate Chips or Chunks

Instructions

    Preheat your oven to 150 degrees C and line your baking trays with parchment paper. You need at least a 10" x 12" or a similar big tray to put the large biscotti later, or you would have to split the large biscotti into two smaller portions for baking.

    Flour the identified working surface generously.

    In a large mixing bowl, mix together the plain flour, granulated white sugar, baking powder and salt, and stir well with a fork or whisk.

    In a separate bowl, lightly beat the three eggs and then add into the center of the dry mixture in the large mixing bowl.

    Before you stir the egg in ( now its still resting in your bowl ), add the chocolate chips and chopped almonds.

    Mix everything together with a spoon. Once it gets very clumpy, move in with your hands. The dough will be sticky.

    Once all the dry ingredients are incorporated and there are no longer visible lumps, transfer the dough to your floured working surface.

    Add more flour to the top of the dough and form a ball.

    Divide the dough to two equal portions. Don't have to be precise here.

    Shape each dough into a log that is 10 inches ( 24 cm ) and 2 inches wide ( 5cm ).

    Transfer each log to a baking tray and bake at the middle rack for about 30-35 minutes or until very lightly golden brown.

    Leave it to cool for 10 minutes on a wire rack.

    Slice the large biscotti log diagonally, each about 1.5cm wide.

    Lay them flat and bake them for another 15-20 minutes. At 150 degrees C.

    Using a spatula, spoon or chop sticks, flip it over and bake for another 15-20 minutes. If it is still too hot for you to work with, feel free to let it cool at room temperature for 10 minutes before attempting again.

    Let it cool at a wire rack for about 30 minutes before storing or serving.

https://www.reddit.com/r/recipes/comments/73f0q4/almond_chocolate_biscotti_full_recipe_in_comments/
https://lebakeomaniac.blogspot.fi/2017/09/almond-chocolate-biscotti-recipe.html