Basic Crepe Batter
J. KENJI LÓPEZ-ALT
Basic Crepe Batter
This right here is your basic, go-to crepe batter, for sweet or savory applications. It can be whipped up in mere seconds in a blender, or whisked together by hand, and—contrary to popular belief—does not require resting before cooking. Fill it with the ingredients of your choice: butter and jam, ham and egg, spinach and cheese, and more.

WHY IT WORKS
Using a blender allows you to bring together a crepe batter in just 15 seconds.
These crepes are easily adaptable to savory or sweet fillings.
YIELD: Makes eight to ten 10-inch crepes
ACTIVE TIME: 15 minutes
TOTAL TIME: 15 minutes

INGREDIENTS
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups whole milk (10 fluid ounces; 280ml)
1 cup flour (5 ounces; 140g)
1 tablespoon melted unsalted butter or vegetable oil (1/2 ounce; 15ml), plus more for cooking
Pinch kosher salt
1 tablespoon (8g) sugar, if making sweet crepes
1 tablespoon minced fresh herbs, such as parsley, tarragon, chervil, or chives (optional; for savory crepes)

DIRECTIONS
1. For the Batter: Combine eggs, milk, flour, melted butter or oil, salt, and sugar (if using) in a blender. Start blender on low speed and increase to high. Blend until smooth, about 10 seconds. Add herbs (if using) and pulse to combine. (Alternatively, you can combine the ingredients in a mixing bowl and whisk vigorously until smooth.)
2. To Cook: Heat a 10-inch nonstick or well-seasoned cast iron or carbon steel skillet over medium heat for 2 minutes. Lightly grease with oil or butter, using a paper towel to wipe out the excess.
3. Hold the pan's handle in one hand and pour in 3 to 4 tablespoons (45 to 60ml) batter, swirling and tilting pan immediately to spread batter in a thin, even layer over bottom of pan.
4. Let cook until top looks dry, about 20 seconds. Using a thin metal or nylon spatula, lift one edge of crepe. Grab that edge with the fingers of both hands and flip crepe. Cook on second side for 10 seconds, then transfer to a plate. Repeat with remaining batter. Fill crepes as desired (such as with butter, sugar, and lemon juice; with butter and jam; with ham, cheese, and eggs; or with spinach and feta) and serve. Crepes can also be made ahead and stored, unfilled and wrapped in plastic, in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Reheat in a nonstick pan to serve.

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT

10-inch nonstick skillet or well-seasoned cast iron or carbon steel skillet; blender

http://www.seriouseats.com/2017/03/how-to-make-crepes-savory-pancakes-food-lab.html