Crispy Oven-Fried Chicken Tenders with Garlic-Herb Yogurt Dip
Author: Emily Clifton, Nerds with Knives
Ingredients
FOR THE DIP:
2 tablespoons (30ml) fresh lemon juice
1 small garlic clove, finely grated or chopped (about ½ teaspoon)
1½ cups (425g) Greek yogurt or sour cream
2 tablespoons (5g) finely chopped chives
2 tablespoons (5g) finely chopped parsley
2 tablespoons (5g) finely chopped basil
Coarse kosher salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste
FOR THE CHICKEN:
2 tablespoons (30g) unsalted butter
1½ cups (125g) panko bread crumbs
1 ½ pounds (650g) chicken tenders or boneless, skinless breasts cut into strips
Coarse kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
2 large garlic cloves, finely grated or minced (about 1 tablespoon)
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
2 tablespoons (25g) mayonnaise
1 tablespoon (16g) smooth dijon mustard
Instructions
1. Heat oven to 425ºF
2. Make the dip:In a small bowl, add lemon juice and garlic. Let sit for 5 minutes (this mellows the raw garlic flavor). Mix in yogurt and herbs; season with salt and pepper, to taste. Set aside.
3. Prepare the chicken: On medium­high heat, melt 2 tablespoons butter in an 8­inch skillet. When butter stops foaming, add panko bread crumbs and season with a good pinch salt and pepper. Cook, stirring often until crumbs are deep golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Add crumbs to a shallow baking dish and set aside.
4. Dry the chicken well and season with salt and pepper. In a large bowl, mix together garlic, lemon zest, mayonnaise and mustard. Add chicken and mix well to coat each piece.
5. Lightly spray an oven­safe wire rack with oil spray and place it over a rimmed baking sheet. Dip chicken pieces into bread crumb mixture, pressing to adhere as many bread crumbs as possible. Shake off any excess and place breaded chicken on the wire rack. Bake until cooked through and golden brown, 12­15 minutes. Serve with herb yogurt dip.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://www.nerdswithknives.com/oven-fried-chicken-tenders-herb-yogurt-dip/