Lemon­Garlic Chicken and Tomato Skewers with Basil Chimichurri
Author: Emily Clifton ­ Nerds with Knives
Grilled chicken doesn’t always need a long marinade to be full of flavor. These spend just a few minutes in a lemonygarlicky mix before they’re grilled to charred perfection. The hot chicken absorbs the flavor of the fresh basil chimichurri, and the grilled cherry tomatoes bring sweetness and acid.
Ingredients
For the kebabs (makes 6 12­inch skewers)
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs (or boneless skinless chicken breasts)
1 pint large cherry tomatoes
3 garlic cloves, grated or minced
3 tablespoons olive oil
½ teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
Zest from one lemon, finely grated
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon maple syrup (or honey)
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
For the Basil Chimichurri:
1¼ cups fresh basil leaves
¼ cup fresh flat­leaf parsley
⅓ cup extra­virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1 small garlic clove, grated (1 teaspoon)
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste
Instructions
1. Preheat your grill to a medium­high heat. Clean and oil grill grates. If you’re using wooden/bamboo skewers, immerse them in warm water to prevent them catching on the grill.
2. In a large bowl, mix together the garlic, oil, red pepper flakes, lemon zest and juice, maple syrup, salt and pepper.
3. Prick chicken thighs all over with a fork, then cut into two­inch chunks. Add to the marinade bowl and mix to coat. It only needs to sit for around five minutes.
4. While the chicken marinates, make the chimichurri : add all ingredients to a food processor and pulse until the herbs are coarsely chopped. Check seasoning to taste. Leave at room temperature until the chicken is ready.
5. Thread the chicken onto metal (or pre­soaked bamboo) skewers. Make sure to leave a little room between pieces on the skewers so they cook evenly.
6. Thread the tomatoes onto separate skewers, brush with olive oil and sprinkle with a little sea salt.
7. Grill the chicken kebabs until lightly charred and cooked through, turning skewers occasionally. This should take around 10 minutes.
8. Transfer the skewers to a platter and serve with the chimichurri sauce.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://nerdswithknives.com/lemon-garlic-chicken-kebabs/