Northern Chinese Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce (乱炖)
Prep Time: 5 mins Cook Time: 55 mins Yield: 4 to 8 Category: Main, Side Cuisine: Chinese
DESCRIPTION
If you’re serving the vegetable stew as a main with some rice (or noodles or bread), it yields 4 big servings. If you serve it as a side, it’s enough for 6 to 8 people.

INGREDIENTS
PART 1
2 tablespoons peanut oil (0r vegetable oil)
450 grams (1 pound) pork ribs
Sea salt
1 onion, chopped
4 cloves garlic, smashed
1 whole star anise pod
2 tablespoons doubanjiang (Fermented spicy chili bean paste)
1 cinnamon stick
1 tablespoon sugar
1 and 1/2 cups chicken stock (or water)
PART 2
240 grams (1/2 pound) potato, chopped
240 grams (1/2 pound) green beans, tough ends removed
2 big carrots, chopped
1 cup fresh corn kernels (or frozen corns)
1 big eggplant, chopped
1 28-oz. can Muir Glen fire roasted tomatoes
1 to 2 bell peppers, chopped
INSTRUCTIONS
PART 1 (FOOTNOTE 1)
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 5-quart dutch oven (or an oven-safe heavy duty pot) over medium heat until hot.
Sprinkle sea salt on both sides of pork ribs to help with browning.
Add pork ribs into the dutch oven. Brown all sides until golden. Transfer to a plate. If the pot is getting too hot and smoky, remove it from stove and allow it to cool.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil, onion, garlic and star anise pod in the same pot. Turn to low heat. Cook and stir until onion turns tender.
Add doubanjiang. Cook and stir until the ingredients are covered evenly, and you can smell a pungent aroma, about 1 minute.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Add chicken stock. Use a spatula to scrape off the brown bits from the bottom of the pot. Add cinnamon stick and and sugar. Return the pork ribs to the pot. Turn to medium high heat and cook until bringing to a boil. Cover, turn to low heat, let simmer for 30 minutes.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
PART 2
While simmering the pork ribs, prepare and chop the veggies. Spread chopped eggplant on a cutting board or working surface. Sprinkle a thin layer of salt on top and let rest for 15 to 20 minutes. Wipe with paper towel to remove moisture. This step helps the eggplant stay in shape and generate a better texture. Skip this step if you’re using a long Asian eggplant.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Transfer the pork ribs to a plate. Add potato, carrot, green beans, corn, and eggplant into the pot. Return the pork ribs on top.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Pour fire roasted tomato over everything. Cover, turn to medium high heat, and cook until boiling. Uncover, let boil for 15 minutes. Carefully mix with spatula in the middle of cooking, so that all the ingredients are soaked in sauce and to prevent sticking to the bottom.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Add bell pepper into the pot. Let cook for another 2 to 3 minutes, until the bell pepper turns tender.
Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com Northern Vegetable Stew with Pork in Hot Sauce Cooking Process | omnivorescookbook.com
Serve warm with rice, noodles, or bread.
NOTES
1. Skip browning and cooking pork ribs if you’re cooking a vegetarian stew. Read my cooking notes in the post to make the stew tastier.

https://omnivorescookbook.com/vegetable-stew