Sesame Peanut Noodles with Crispy Baked Tofu
Author: Emily Clifton, Nerds with Knives
Prep time: 20 mins Cook time: 10 mins Total time: 30 mins
Serves: Serves 6

Ingredients
3 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds, plus more for garnish
½ cup smooth or chunky peanut butter (like Jif or Skippy)
2 medium cloves garlic, roughly chopped
1 tablespoon minced or grated fresh ginger
¼ cup dark soy sauce (like Kikkoman), or tamari
1 tablespoon fish sauce (optional, use soy if vegetarian)
2½ tablespoons unseasoned rice vinegar
2 - 4 teaspoons Sambal Olek or other chili sauce, to taste
3 tablespoons light brown sugar
Hot water
1 pound fresh Lo Mein noodles or 12 ounces dried spaghetti
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil
4 scallions, sliced thin
¼ cup roasted peanuts, chopped, (optional, for garnish)
1 lime, quartered, for garnish
5 radishes, thinly sliced, for garnish (optional, for garnish)
2 cups crispy baked tofu (see recipe below)
Instructions
1. In a blender or food processor, puree 3 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds, peanut butter, garlic, ginger, soy
sauce, vinegar, chili sauce, and sugar until smooth, about 30 seconds. With machine running, drizzle in hot
water until sauce has consistency of heavy cream, might be up to about 5 tablespoons; set aside.
2. Bring a large pot of salted water to boil over high heat. Add noodles and boil until tender, according to package
directions (about 4 minutes for fresh and 10 minutes for dried). Drain into a colander, then rinse with cold tap
water until cool; shake to drain excess water. Add rinsed noodles to a large bowl and toss with sesame oil until
evenly coated. Add ¾ of sauce and toss to combine.
3. Divide into serving bowls and add some crispy tofu to each serving. Drizzle a little more peanut sauce over tofu.
Top with chopped peanuts, scallions, and sesame seeds. Serve with cucumber salad, a lime wedge for
squeezing and a few sliced radishes.

Crispy Baked Tofu
Author: Emily Clifton, adapted from The Kitchn
Ingredients
1 block (12 to 15 ounces) extra-firm tofu
1 tablespoon neutral vegetable oil
1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil
1 tablespoon dark soy sauce (like kikkkoman) or tamari
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon toasted sesame seeds
2 tablespoons panko breadcrumbs (optional)
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 375ºF. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, a silicone mat or foil.
2. Remove tofu from package and pour away water. Slice the tofu into 1-inch cubes.
3. Line a cutting board with a clean tea towel or 3 layers of paper towels, then arrange the tofu on top in a single
layer. Fold the towel over the tofu (or add 3 more paper towels on top), and place something heavy on top to
press the excess water out (like another cutting board, weighed down with a heavy pan). Let the tofu drain for at
least 20 minutes, up to 3 hours.
4. Transfer the pressed tofu to a medium mixing bowl and drizzle with the vegetable oil, sesame oil and soy sauce.
Gently toss to combine. Sprinkle the cornstarch, panko and sesame seeds over the tofu, and gently toss until
evenly coated.
5. Spread tofu out onto the lined baking sheet in a single layer, leaving a little space between cubes. Bake for 20
minutes, then turn and cooking until the outside of the tofu is golden brown and the pieces look slightly puffed,
10 - 20 minutes more. The longer you bake the tofu, the chewier it will be.
6. If using immediately, serve while still warm. If saving the tofu for later, let it cool on the baking sheet, then
transfer to a refrigerator container. The tofu will keep refrigerated for up to a week

Recipe by Nerds with Knives at https://www.nerdswithknives.com/sesame-peanut-noodles-baked-tofu/