Classic Sicilian Arancini (Arancine di Riso)

Arancini, rice balls stuffed with sauce and peas, are one of the best-loved Sicilian snacks and street foods, and they have become increasingly popular throughout Italy and worldwide.

The filling in this recipe is one of the most classic -- a meat ragù, green peas and melty mozzarella, but there are endless other types of fillings including pistachios, mushrooms, prosciutto and mozzarella, ham, spinach, and more.

Ingredients

For the Rice:

    10 1/2 ounces (300 g) short-grain rice (Vialone Nano, Carnaroli or Arborio)
    1 4 teaspoon crushed saffron
    1 1/2 cups water
    2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
    4 teaspoons unsalted butter
    Fine sea salt, to taste
    Freshly ground black pepper, to taste

For the Meat Sauce and Filling:

    1 tablespoon olive oil
    1/3 cup (about 1/2 small) finely chopped yellow onion
    3 tablespoons finely chopped carrot
    3 tablespoons finely chopped celery
    3 ounces (85 g) ground beef
    3 ounces (85 g) ground pork
    2 tablespoons (30 ml) dry red wine
    2 teaspoons tomato paste (doppio concentrato di pomodoro)
    1 cup (237 ml) tomato purée (passata di pomodoro)
    1/3 cup green peas (fresh or frozen)

For the Rice Balls:

    4.4 ounces (125 g) fresh mozzarella cheese, diced (optional, you can leave this out for a slightly lighter/less cheesy arancino)
    1⁄4 cup all-purpose flour
    2 large eggs
    1/2 cup water
    Pinch salt
    2 cups breadcrumbs
    2 inches neutral vegetable oil for frying

Directions

Make the Rice

    In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, place the rice, saffron and 1 1/2 cups water. Bring to a boil, cover, and reduce heat to low. Let simmer about 15 to 20 minutes or until all of the water has been absorbed.

    Remove lid, stir in grated Parmigiano, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Spread the rice out on a large plate or baking dish to cool completely to room temperature.

Make the Meat Sauce and Filling

    First, you'll start with a classic soffritto: Heat the olive oil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the onions, carrots, and celery and sauté, stirring often, until softened and the onions are translucent, about 8 to 10 minutes.

    Add the ground beef and pork and fry, stirring often, until browned, about 5 to 8 minutes. Add the wine and let cook until the alcohol aroma has reduced, about 1 minute.

    Stir in the tomato paste and tomato purée, reduce the heat to medium-low, and cook, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes.

    Add the peas and continue to simmer the sauce for another 8 to 10 minutes, or until the peas are tender and the sauce is thickened. It should not be too liquidy.

    Transfer the filling to a bowl and set aside to let it cool.

Assemble and Fry the Arancini

    Once the rice and filling are completely cooled, start shaping your rice balls.

    Place 1 heaping tablespoon of rice in the palm of one hand, then use your fingers and thumb to shape it into a hollow bowl shape.

    Place about 1 teaspoon of the filling in the center, 1 to 2 small cubes of diced fresh mozzarella (if using), and then gently close the rice around the filling to form either a round ball shape or a cone/pear shape.

    When all of your arancini have been formed, whisk together the flour, eggs, 1/2 cup of water and a pinch of salt in a shallow bowl until smooth. Spread the bread crumbs in a plate or baking dish.

    Gently roll each ball first in the egg-flour-water-salt mixture, letting any excess drip off, then in the breadcrumbs until evenly coated.

    At this point, you can refrigerate your arancini for 20 to 30 minutes to let them firm up, if they seem a bit too loose or liquidy. If not, you can go directly to frying.

    Heat about 2 inches (5 cm) of neutral frying oil to 360 F (182 C). Fry your arancini in batches of just 2 to 3 at a time, being careful not to overcrowd the pot, until they are evenly golden-brown, about 3 minutes.

    Transfer them to a paper-towel lined plate to drain and serve hot.

	https://www.reddit.com/r/recipes/comments/7dwal0/classic_sicilian_arancini_arancine_di_riso/
	https://www.thespruce.com/classic-sicilian-arancini-rice-balls-3998136