Crispy Pan­Seared Salmon with Creamy Lemon Rice
Author: Emily Clifton ­ Nerds with Knives
Ingredients
For the Lemon Rice
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 medium leeks (white and light green parts only), washed well and diced (2 cups)
1 large yellow onion, diced (1½cups)
Coarse kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper
2 large cloves garlic, minced or grated
1½ cups Arborio or Carnoroli rice
½ cup dry white wine
¼ cup fresh lemon juice (from about 1 large lemon)
2 teaspoons lemon zest, finely grated (from about 1 large lemon)
4 cups low­sodium chicken broth or water
3 tablespoons mascarpone or cream cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan or Pecorino
½ cup fresh flat­leaf parsley, chopped
For the Salmon:
2 tablespoons neutral oil (like canola or grapeseed)
4 (6­ounce) salmon fillets
Coarse kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste
Instructions
1. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the leeks and onion along with a pinch of salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until just tender, 6 to 8 minutes.
2. Stir in the garlic and rice cook for 2 minutes, stirring to make sure rice is coated in a little oil. Add the wine, lemon juice, and zest and season with salt and pepper (we add about ½ teaspoon each) and cook, stirring, until the wine is absorbed, about 2 minutes.
3. Add the broth and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer, uncovered, until the liquid has absorbed and the rice is tender, 18 to 20 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in sour cream, Parmesan and parsley. Set aside while you cook the fish.
4. Pat salmon dry and season only the skin­side with salt. Heat oil in a cast­iron pan over medium­high; add salmon, skin­side down and gently press each fillet with a spatula to ensure even contact with the pan. Cook until the skin is crispy, about 3 minutes. Season the flesh side with salt and pepper, then flip and cook a further 1­2 minutes. Transfer lemon rice to a serving platter (or dinner plates) and top with salmon. Garnish with lemon slices and parsley, if desired.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://www.nerdswithknives.com/crispy-pan-seared-salmon/