Crispy AF, Oven­Fried Sriracha­Honey Wings
Author: Emily Clifton ­ Nerds with Knives
Seriously crispy and coated with a sweet and spicy Sriracha­honey glaze, these oven­baked wings rival fried ones
any day. This is game day food done right.
Ingredients
2½ pounds chicken wings, cut into drumettes and flats
1­1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1­1/2 teaspoons coarse kosher salt
For The Honey Sriracha Glaze:
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 large garlic cloves, grated or minced (about 2 teaspoons)
6 tablespoons honey
6 tablespoons Sriracha
¼ cup ketchup
1 tablespoon soy sauce (use Tamari for gluten free)
1 teaspoon fish sauce
2 teaspoons lime juice
For garnish:
Quartered limes
Toasted sesame seeds
Scallions. thinly sliced
Instructions
1. Crinkle up a large piece of aluminum foil and then flatten it a bit. Line a rimmed baking sheet with the crinkly foil and set rack inside. Carefully dry chicken wings as best you can with paper towels. Place ⅓ of wings in large bowl, sprinkle with
2. teaspoon baking powder and 1 teaspoon salt, and toss until thoroughly and evenly coated. Place on rack, leaving slight space between each wing. Repeat with remaining two batches of wings. Place baking sheet with wings in refrigerator and allow to rest, uncovered, overnight (at least 8 hours, and up to 18 hours).
3. Adjust oven rack to upper­middle position and preheat oven to 450°F. Add chicken wings and cook for 20 minutes. Flip wings and continue to cook until crisp and golden brown, 15 to 25 minutes longer.
4. To make the glaze, melt butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Stir in garlic and cook for 1 minute. Stir in honey, Sriracha, ketchup, soy sauce, fish sauce and lime juice. Bring to a boil; lower heat and simmer until slightly thickened, about 4­5 minutes. Set aside.
5. When wings are brown, brush them all over with the glaze. Make sure they’re fully coated. Turn on broiler and broil for 2­3 minutes until bubbly and charred in spots. Watch carefully because they will darken quickly.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://www.nerdswithknives.com/sriracha-honey-wings/