Easy Pineapple Fried Rice (菠萝炒饭)
Easy Pineapple Fried Rice - This super easy pineapple fried rice uses simple ingredients to create the maximum flavor. Learn all the secrets of making perfect fried rice that tastes even better than the restaurant version, and the one secret ingredient to make the best pineapple fried rice. {Gluten-Free adaptable}
To make the dish gluten free, use tamari or coconut amino to replace the light soy sauce.
Prep Time10 mins
Cook Time5 mins
Total Time15 mins
Course: Main, Side
Cuisine: Thai
Keyword: restaurant-style
Servings: 4 servings
Calories: 452kcal
Ingredients

    2 tablespoons vegetable oil
    1/2 lb (225 g) ground chicken (or ground turkey)
    2 eggs , beaten with a pinch of salt
    3 cups cooked rice , overnight rice works best, separated by hand (*Footnote)
    1 tablespoon light soy sauce
    1 teaspoon curry powder (I prefer mild Madras curry powder)
    1 1/2 cups chopped fresh pineapple
    1/2 red bell pepper , diced
    1 cup mixed frozen veggies (snow peas, carrots, and/or corn)
    3 green onions , chopped
    1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste
    1/3 cup roasted cashews
    1 lime , cut into wedges
    Chopped cilantro leaves , for garnish (Optional) 

Instructions

    Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a large nonstick skillet (or a wok, or a carbon steel skillet) until hot. Add the eggs. Let cook without touching, until the bottom is set. Stir and chop with your spatula to separate the eggs into small bits. Once the egg is just cooked (it’s OK if some parts are still a bit runny), transfer it to a plate and set aside.
    Add the remaining 1 1/2 tablespoon of oil and the ground chicken. Stir and chop with your spatula to separate it into small bits. Cook until the chicken turns mostly white.
    Add the rice. Stir and chop to further separate it into single grains. Cook until the rice is heated up, 2 to 3 minutes. If you’re using a wok or a carbon steel skillet, the rice might stick to the pan. You can add a bit more oil and use your spatula to release the rice.
    Add the soy sauce and curry powder. Stir to mix well.
    Add the pineapple, bell pepper, frozen veggies, green onions, and sprinkle with salt. Stir and cook for 1 minute.
    Add back the scrambled eggs and cashews and toss again. Carefully taste the rice. Sprinkle more salt and stir to mix well, if needed. Transfer everything to a big plate.
    Serve hot as a main dish or side dish.

https://omnivorescookbook.com/pineapple-fried-rice/