Jamaican Jerk Pork Chops with Curry-Spiced Sweet Potatoes and Mango Salsa
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
2 to 3 bone­in pork chops
Kosher salt
2 habanero chiles, stemmed, seeded, and minced (wear gloves!)
1 medium white onion, divided
3 large cloves garlic
1 tablespoon dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon fresh ginger, chopped
2 teaspoons ground allspice
2 teaspoons dried thyme
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
½ cup apple cider vinegar, divided
½ cup orange juice
¼ cup soy sauce
¼ cup oil, plus more as needed
2 medium sweet potatoes, peeled and chopped
2 teaspoons Jamaican curry powder
1 ripe mango, peeled, pitted, and roughly chopped
½ red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and roughly chopped
2 green onions, roughly chopped
¼ cup cilantro, roughly chopped
Directions
1. Liberally salt the pork chops and set aside. In a food processor, combine the habaneros, half of the onion, the garlic, dark brown sugar, ginger, allspice, thyme, black pepper, cinnamon, half of the apple cider vinegar, the orange juice, and soy sauce. Process until well­combined. Stream in the oil.
2. Place the pork chops in a bowl or large dish and cover with the marinade, turning to coat. Let sit for at least 30 minutes.
3. Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350°F. Heat a large cast iron skillet over medium­high heat with a tablespoon of oil.
4. Sprinkle the sweet potato chunks with the curry powder and salt to taste, and add to the skillet. Roughly chop the remaining half of the onion and add to the sweet potatoes. Cook until browned but not cooked through, about 4 minutes. Remove the sweet potato chunks to a large bowl and set aside.
5. Place the pork chops in the skillet and sear until the undersides of the chops have browned, about 4­5 minutes. Flip and repeat for the opposite side. Turn off the burner, remove the pork chops from the skillet and set aside.
6. Place the sweet potato chunks back into the skillet and place the pork chops on top. Move the skillet to the oven (using oven mitts, the handle will be hot!) and cook until the pork chops register 140°F to 145°F in the thickest part of the meat with an instant­read thermometer, and the sweet potatoes are fully cooked through, about 6­12 minutes. Your timing will vary based on the thickness of your pork chops, so be sure to check every few minutes for the perfect doneness.
7. While the chops finish cooking, combine the mango, red bell pepper, green onions, cilantro, and remaining apple cider vinegar. Set aside.
8. Serve the finished chops and sweet potatoes with the mango salsa.
Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/jamaican-jerk-pork-chops-with-curry-spiced-sweet-potatoes-and-mango-salsa/