Nettle Risotto with Green Garlic and Taleggio
Author: Emily Clifton, Nerds with Knives
Ingredients
8 oz (230g) taleggio cheese, cold, right out of the refrigerator
6 oz (170g) / 4 packed cups nettles, thick stems removed (or substitute curly spinach)
1 tablespoon (15ml) extra virgin olive oil
5 tablespoons (70g) unsalted butter
1½ cups finely diced large yellow onion (about 1 medium onion, 300g)
¼ cup finely chopped green garlic (bulb and tender stems), or 3 medium garlic cloves, minced
1 teaspoon kosher salt, more as needed
1½ cups (300g) Carnaroli or Arborio rice
¾ cup (180ml) dry white wine
5 cups (1.2L) homemade or low sodium chicken or vegetable stock
Freshly cracked black pepper, to taste
Instructions
1. Trim the rind off the cheese while it’s cold and discard. Dice the cheese into ½-inch cubes. Set aside at room
temperature while you prepare the risotto.
2. Bring five quarts of salted water to a boil in a large pot. Prepare another large bowl with ice water.
3. Using gloves, strip the leaves from the picked nettles and discard any stalks or seeds (although you want to pick
before seed stage: see note in article). Give the leaves a rinse to remove any dirt and then add leaves to the
boiling water. Blanch until fully wilted, about 1 to 2 minutes. Using tongs or a slotted spoon, remove the leaves
and transfer them immediately into the ice water. Stir them gently (you can use your hands at this stage) until
cool, then drain in a colander. Squeeze the leaves with your hands to remove as much liquid as you can. You
may notice a slight slimy, kelpy texture - this is normal! Note: Follow the same directions for spinach (though no
gloves are needed).
4. Transfer nettles to a food processor along with 1 tablespoon olive oil and pulse until greens are mostly smooth,
like pesto, about 10 to 12 pulses. You’ll end up with about 1 cup of purée. Set aside.
5. Heat stock in a saucepan until simmering, reduce heat to low and keep warm.
6. Melt 5 tablespoons butter in a large, high-sided skillet over medium heat. Stir in onion, garlic and salt and cook
until translucent but not brown, about 7 minutes. Stir in rice, and toss until it’s well coated in butter. Cook until the
edges of the rice looks a little translucent and it smells toasted, about 5 minutes.
7. Stir in wine and cook until it’s absorbed, about 3 minutes. Stir in hot stock, about 1 cup at a time, stirring often
but not constantly, until the rice is cooked through but not mushy, 15 to 20 minutes. You may have some stock
left over. If more liquid is needed, you can add some hot water.
8. Stir in nettle purée until combined. Add cubed taleggio and stir to melt, leaving streaks of cheese. Season to
taste with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at https://www.nerdswithknives.com/nettle-risotto/