Oven Baked Pork Chops with Potatoes
{See VIDEO below} Made with ingredients you probably already have in your pantry,
these pork chops are slathered in a country-style sauce then baked until sticky and
golden. Add potatoes or any other vegetable that will bake in around the same time!
This recipe is fabulous as it is but lends itself to many variations so add your own
touch! MARINATING IS OPTIONAL. This is also great with CHICKEN.
Course: Dinner
Servings: 4
Calories: 555 kcal
Author: Nagi | RecipeTin Eats
Ingredients
Rub
1 tsp Worcestershire Sauce
2 tbsp ketchup (Note 1)
1 tbsp soy sauce (Note 2)
2 tbsp brown sugar (or white)
1 tbsp olive oil (or vegetable or canola oil)
1 clove garlic, minced
1 tsp apple cider vinegar (Note 3)
Chops
4 pork chops / cutlets , around 200g/7oz each including bone (Note 4)
800g/ 1.6 lb baby potatoes , larger ones cut in half (Note 5)
1 tbsp olive oil
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 200C / 390F (fan forced / convection) or 220C / 430F (standard oven).
2. Toss potatoes in oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Scatter on baking tray.
3. Place in oven for 15 minutes (giving them a head start).
Pork
1. Meanwhile, mix the Rub ingredients together in a small bowl.
2. Slather the pork on both sides with the Rub, reserving some Rub for basting. (See notes for marinating)
3. Take the tray out of the oven. Place pork on the tray.
4. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove tray from oven, spoon over reserved rub on the surface then bake for a
further 10 minutes (or 15 minutes for large chops ~ 350g/12oz) (Note 4).
5. Take tray out of the oven, flick to grill/broiler on high.
6. Use a brush to get the golden juices off the tray (especially around pork) and dab it onto the pork - this iskey for flavour and colour!
7. Pop pork under grill/broiler for a few minutes until pork is caramelised and golden.
8. Serve, scraping the juices on the tray onto the pork, then garnish with parsley if desired. Pictured with this
Broccoli Salad.
Recipe Notes
1. If you are in Australia or the UK, you can use Tomato Sauce (American readers - don't use what you know asTomato Sauce, use Ketchup!).
2. I use normal soy sauce (Kikkoman). This can be substituted with 2 1/2 tsp light soy sauce. I don'trecommend dark soy sauce - flavour is too strong.
3. Can be substituted with white wine or sherry vinegar.
4. This can be made with any pork chops. I use what we call Pork Cutlets here in Australia. Bone in is betterbecause it's juicier. Cook time will differ depending on size of cutlets - my cook time is based on 200g/7oz porkchops with bone in. For 350g/12oz, bake for a total of 25 minutes (i.e. 10 minutes + 15 minutes + grill/broil)You could also use chicken - bake for same time for 180g/6oz boneless thigh fillets and for 200g/7oz breast. Iwould recommend marinating breast.
5. Make sure the potatoes are no larger than 3cm / 1 1/4" diameter otherwise they won't cook in the prescribed time. You can either increase the initial bake time OR cut the larger ones which is what I did.
6. If marinating, place in a ziplock bag, add the pork and massage from the outside to coat the pork in the Rub.Refrigerate for up to 24 hours. If freezing, put the bag straight in the freezer, then defrost before using. It willmarinate while defrosting.
** Recipe updated to make broiling/grilling at end part of the recipe rather than optional! Caramelising theglaze really adds that final touch!**
https://www.recipetineats.com/oven-baked-pork-chops-with-potatoes/