Shrimp Fried Rice with Pineapple and Toasted Coconut
Total Cost: $7.58
Cost Per Serving: $1.90
Serves: 4
Ingredients
2 Tbsp soy sauce $0.18
2 Tbsp sriracha $0.10
1 Tbsp brown sugar $0.04
20oz. can pineapple chunks in juice $1.95
½ bunch green onions
4 large eggs $1.08
¼ cup unsweetened coconut shreds* $0.20
3 Tbsp cooking oil** $0.12
½ lb. peeled and deveined shrimp (51/70 count) $3.00
4 cups day­old cooked jasmine rice $0.40
Handful fresh cilantro (optional) $0.16
Instructions
1. Prepare the sauce by stirring together the soy sauce, sriracha, and brown sugar. Drain the pineapple well.  Slice the green onions. Crack the eggs into a bowl and then whisk until smooth.
2. Add the unsweetened coconut shreds to a large skillet (do not add oil) and heat over a medium flame. Stir and cook the coconut continuously until it begins to turn golden brown and fragrant. Once golden brown, transfer the toasted coconut from the skillet to a clean bowl and set it aside until ready to use.
3. Add 1 Tbsp of cooking oil to the hot skillet and swirl it around to coat the surface. Add the shrimp and cook just until the shrimp becomes pink and opaque. Remove the shrimp to a clean bowl.
4. Add another tablespoon of cooking oil to the skillet and swirl again to coat the surface. Pour in the whisked eggs and gently scramble the eggs as they cook. Cook the eggs just until they are set, yet still moist, then transfer them from the skillet to the bowl where the shrimp is being held.
5. Add the drained pineapple and the lower half of the green onions (the white ends and some of the green) to the skillet. Stir and cook just until warmed through, then transfer to the bowl with the eggs and shrimp.
6. Add one more tablespoon of cooking oil to the skillet, swirl to coat, then add the cold cooked rice. Let the rice cook in the skillet until you hear it begin to sizzle and crackle, then sir and let it continue to cook some more. Avoid over stirring the rice as it cooks to prevent it from becoming sticky and gummy. Continue to cook the rice until it is heated through and slightly golden.
7. Finally, add the cooked shrimp, eggs, pineapple, and green onion back to the skillet. Pour the prepared sauce over top, and stir until everything is coated in sauce. Allow the mixture to heat through.
8. Top the fried rice with the toasted coconut, the remaining green onion, and some fresh cilantro leaves just before serving.
Notes
*I found my unsweetened coconut shreds in the bulk bins at Whole Foods.
**Use any high heat neutral cooking oil, like canola, peanut, sesame, safflower, etc. Or, try using coconut oil for even more coconutty flavor!
Recipe by Budget Bytes at http://www.budgetbytes.com/2016/08/shrimp-fried-rice-pineapple-toasted-coconut/
