Stir-Fry Tofu That Tastes Good
A tofu-veggie stir fry made tasty with a simple technique that gives the tofu perfect texture and flavor. Serve over rice or on its own for a healthy and delicious weeknight meal. Feeds 2-3.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Prep Time 15 minutes	
Cook Time 45 minutes	
Total Time 1 hour	
Servings: 2
Category: Entree
Cuisine: Gluten-Free, Vegan
Freezer Friendly No
Does it keep? 2-3 Days
Ingredients
US Customary - Metric
STIR FRY

    1 396-g package firm or extra-firm tofu
    200 g roughly chopped green beans
    128 g diced carrots or red pepper
    30 ml toasted sesame oil for sautéing (or sub peanut or coconut)

SAUCE

    60 ml low-sodium soy sauce (make sure it’s gluten-free if gluten-free)
    6 g fresh grated ginger
    27 g organic brown sugar
    15 ml agave or maple syrup (or honey if not vegan)
    7 g cornstarch

Instructions

    Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (204 C) and begin drying your tofu. Drain, remove it from the package and place between two thick towels folded into the shape of the tofu. Then place a plate or bowl on top and top it with something heavy like a book or skillet.
    Let it dry for about 15 minutes, changing your towels if they get too wet. Once dry, chop into roughly 1-inch cubes or rectangles (see photo).
    Arrange tofu on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet to prevent sticking and bake for a total of 25-35 minutes, flipping once halfway through to ensure even cooking. This will dry out the tofu and help give it a more meat-like texture. If you want a tougher texture, cook it for 30-35. For a slightly more tender texture, pull it out at 20-25 minutes to check.
    Once it’s golden brown and a bit tough and firm, remove from the oven set it out to dry a bit more while you prep your vegetables. Ideally, it would set out another 45 minutes or even longer. I haven’t tried letting it set out for much longer, but I don’t think it would hurt either way.
    If serving over rice, start the rice at this point.
    In a small mixing bowl, whisk together all of the sauce ingredients – set aside.
    To a large skillet over medium-high heat, add sesame oil and swirl to coat. Then add veggies and toss to coat. Cook for 5-7 minutes, stirring often. When the vegetables have some color and have softened a bit, add the sauce and stir. It should bubble and thicken. Then add the tofu and stir to coat.
    Cook the mixture for 3-5 minutes, stirring often. When veggies are cooked to your preferred doneness, remove from heat. Serve as is or over rice for a more filling meal. Best when eaten fresh, though will keep in the refrigerator for a couple days.


https://minimalistbaker.com/tofu-that-tastes-good-stir-fry/