Yogurt Marinated Lamb Skewers with Mint­Pistachio Pesto Pilaf
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
For the Yogurt Marinated Lamb Skewers
3 cups plain, whole­milk yogurt
2 tablespoons olive oil
Juice of 1 lemon
½ medium onion, finely minced
5 cloves garlic, minced
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon lemon pepper
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2½ pounds boneless lamb, cubed
Wooden skewers, soaked in water for an hour
For the Mint­Pistachio Pesto Pilaf
1 cup mint leaves, packed
⅔ cup roasted, salted, shelled pistachios, divided
2 cloves garlic, peeled
¼ cup extra virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon lemon juice
Kosher salt, to taste
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
½ medium onion, finely chopped
½ medium red bell pepper, finely chopped
2 cups long­grain white rice
2¾ cups chicken broth
½ cup peas, fresh or frozen
Directions
1. Combine all of the ingredients for the lamb skewers (except for the wooden skewers) in a large bowl. Mix well to combine and make sure that the lamb is entirely coated. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or overnight.
2. Meanwhile, prepare the pesto. In the bowl of a food processor, combine the mint leaves, ⅓ cup of the pistachios, and the 2 cloves of garlic. Pulse until finely chopped. Run the food processor and slowly stream in the olive oil until well­combined, and then mix in the lemon juice and salt, to taste.
3. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add in the onion and red pepper and cook until the onion is softened but not browned, about 3 minutes. Add the dry rice and toast it, stirring constantly, until it gives off a nutty aroma, about 3 more minutes.
4. Pour in the chicken broth and season with salt. Bring the mixture to a boil and then reduce the heat to medium. Cook until the liquid is nearly absorbed, about 10 minutes.
5. Fold in the peas, reduce the heat to low, and cook for an additional 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and let stand for 5 minutes, uncovered. Fluff the rice and mix in the mint­pistachio pesto. Set aside.
6. Heat a grill pan over medium­high heat and coat it with cooking spray. Thread the marinated lamb onto the soaked skewers. Arrange 4 skewers at a time on the pan and cook for 7 minutes or until the lamb reaches the desired degree of doneness, turning halfway through. Remove from the pan and repeat with remaining skewers.
7. Serve the lamb skewers warm with the pilaf.

Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/yogurt-marinated-lamb-skewers-with-mint-pistachio-pesto-pilaf/
