Authentic Traditional Romanian Eggplant Salad- Salata De Vinete

Authentic Traditional Romanian Eggplant Salad- Salata De Vinete is a delicious summer salad that can be served on fresh bread with tomatoes and sometimes Feta cheese.

Yield: 6-8 servings
Prep Time
20 minutes
Cook Time
45 minutes
Additional Time
1 hour
Total Time
2 hours 5 minutes
Ingredients

    3-4 big eggplants
    1 small onion or 2-3 green onions chopped finely
    3-4 tablespoons sunflower oil
    salt to taste
    2 tablespoons lemon juice or vinegar(or to your taste)

Instructions

See more detailed instructions on the blog about cooking the eggplant.

If you use a fire grill:

    Bring the temperature of the grill between medium low to low. (If it is too hot, the eggplants will burn on the outside before the inside is cooked. )
    Pierce the eggplants in few places and grill them on each side, turning them regularly, until the skin is burned. Depending on their size, you should grill the eggplants somewhere between 20 to 40 minutes or until the skin is evenly charred and the eggplant collapses. The flesh should be really soft.

If you use a gas stove:

    Lay some aluminum foil around the burners of the stove top to make sure that the liquid released by the eggplants won’t cause too much of a mess.
    Turn regularly with a pair of tongs making sure that the skin is burnt on all sides.
    Cook until the skin is evenly charred and the flesh of the eggplants very soft.
    Remove them from the fire and let them rest on a tray for few minutes before you start peeling the skin off.

If you use the oven:

    Preheat oven at 400F/200C.
    Place the eggplants on a baking tray lined with baking paper or tin foil and prick the eggplants with a fork several times .
    Bake them for about 45 minutes or until the flesh of the eggplants is very soft.

Making the eggplant salad:

    After grilling, roasting or baking the eggplants, let them cool, then carefully remove all the skin. Place the eggplants in a sieve and let drain for about half an hour to one hour. This step will remove the juice from the eggplant that is supposed to be bitter.
    Chop with a special wooden/plastic knife made especially for this purpose or with a regular knife.
    Place the eggplants in a bowl and add the sunflower oil, salt, lemon juice or vinegar and chopped onion. Mix well.
    Serve on crusty fresh bread with tomatoes and Feta cheese.

If you prefer it with mayo:

Chop the eggplant, then add the mayo and garlic cloves crushed. Taste for salt and pepper.
Notes

Other ways to dress the salad:

1-2 tablespoons mayo

2-3 small garlic cloves crushed

chopped parsley

Serve the salad either way with good bread like baguette, ciabatta or artisanal bread, fresh sliced tomatoes and Feta cheese

 https://www.thebossykitchen.com/roasted-eggplant-salad-romanian-style/