Brownie Bites Filled With Peanut Butter Buttercream
Author: Emily Clifton ­ Nerds with Knives
Ingredients
For the Brownies:
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 teaspoon unsalted butter
2 cups semisweet chocolate chunks or chips (plus 1 cup chunks stirred into batter)
2 large eggs
¾ cup light brown sugar
½ teaspoon of vanilla extract
½ cup all­purpose flour
¼ teaspoon baking powder
¼ teaspoon salt
For the Peanut Butter Filling:
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 cup creamy peanut butter
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon coarse kosher salt
⅓ cup heavy cream
Salted peanuts, finely chopped, optional
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350°F.
2. Melt the oil, butter, and chocolate together in the microwave on high heat for 2½­3 minutes, stirring at 1­minute intervals (or melt the mixture in a double boiler). Let cool for 5­7 minutes.
3. In another bowl, whisk together eggs, brown sugar, and vanilla until well combined. Fold the melted chocolate mixture into the egg mixture.
4. Whisk together the remaining dry ingredients in a separate bowl. Combine the flour mixture with the chocolate mixture until just combined (Don’t over­mix). Place batter into a shallow dish (like a pie­plate) and freeze for 6­8 minutes (this will keep the brownies from spreading too much).
5. Prepare 2 cookie sheets with Silpats or parchment paper (or spray with nonstick spray). Using a 1 tablespoon measure, scoop mixture on the cookie sheets. Press them down slightly with your fingers to an even thickness (about ¼­1/2 inch high). Bake for 8­10 minutes until the tops look dry and cracked (the insides will still be quite moist). Cool completely.
6. Place the confectioners' sugar, peanut butter, butter, vanilla, and salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on medium­low speed until creamy, scraping down the bowl with a rubber spatula as you work. Add the cream and beat on high speed until the mixture is light and smooth.
7. Pipe or spoon the filling on one cookie, top with another and press down slightly. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Let them come to room temperature before serving.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://www.nerdswithknives.com/brownie-cookies-peanut-butter/