CHICKEN WITH LIME, GARLIC AND CILANTRO
Author: Emily Clifton - Nerds with Knives
PREP TIME:  15 MINS COOK TIME:  1 HOUR TOTAL TIME:  1 HOUR 15 MINS
SERVES: 4-6 SERVINGS
 
INGREDIENTS
6-8 chicken thighs, bone in, skin on (about 1½- 2 lbs or .7kg)
1 tablespoon olive oil (13.5 grams)
1½ teaspoons ground cumin (8 grams)
1½ teaspoons course kosher salt (to taste) (8 grams)
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper (2.5 grams)
6 garlic cloves, roughly chopped (about 3 tablespoons / 44 grams)
1½ tablespoons flour (21 grams)
1 cup dry white wine (237 ml)
1½ tablespoons honey (32 grams)
3 tablespoons lime juice (from about 1½ limes) (44 grams)
2 teaspoons lime zest, finely grated (from 1½ limes)
2 cups chicken broth (473 ml)
4 scallions, sliced, white and green parts separated
4-5 tablespoons cilantro, stems removed, chopped; more for garnish (about 1 large bunch)
1 lime, sliced, for garnish
INSTRUCTIONS
Preheat your oven to 375 degrees F.
Pat the chicken thighs dry, and season each thigh on both sides with cumin, salt and pepper.
Pre-heat a heavy-bottomed skillet or dutch oven on medium-high for a minute or so and then add the oil. Add the thighs, skin-side down and cook until deeply browned (5-7 minutes). Don’t crowd the pan, work in batches if necessary. Turn and brown other side (3-5 minutes). Remove thighs to a plate and set them aside,
Lower the heat and if there’s a lot of oil, remove most of it, leaving about a tablespoon and a half. Add flour, garlic and sliced white scallion bottoms. Stir well to coat the flour in oil and cook for 2-3 minutes. Whisk in the wine and let it simmer for 3 minutes while scraping up any brown bits with a wooden spoon. Add the broth, honey, lime juice, lime zest and half the cilantro and bring to a simmer. Add the chicken, skin-side up and place it, uncovered, into the oven. Cook for 35-40 minutes, or until chicken is cooked through (165º F / 74º C on an instant read thermometer). Garnish with sliced limes, the remaining cilantro and green scallion tops.
Serve with rice, potatoes or lots of crusty bread for sopping up the sauce.

http://nerdswithknives.com/chicken-with-lime-garlic-and-cilantro/
https://www.reddit.com/r/FoodPorn/comments/3b6wfg/my_husband_said_this_was_the_best_chicken_ive/