Chicken with Lemon, Garlic and Basil
Author: Emily Clifton ­ Nerds with Knives
Ingredients
6­8 chicken thighs, bone in, skin on (about 1½ lb / 0.75 kg)
1 tablespoon olive oil
Coarse kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
6 garlic cloves, finely chopped (about 3 tablespoons)
1 small onion, chopped (about ½ cup)
2 tablespoons flour
½ cup dry white wine (120 ml)
1 teaspoon honey
3 tablespoons lemon juice (from about 1 lemon)
1½ teaspoons lemon zest, finely grated (from 1 lemon)
2 cups chicken broth (475 ml)
1 cup fresh basil, leaves torn or coarsely chopped (about 1 large bunch) (more for garnish)
1 lemon, thinly sliced, for garnish
Instructions
1. Preheat your oven to 375 degrees F.
2. Trim any excess fat from the chicken and pat them dry. Generously season each thigh on both sides with salt
and pepper.
3. Pre­heat a heavy­bottomed skillet or dutch oven on medium­high for a minute and then add the oil. Add the
thighs, skin­side down and cook until deeply browned (5­7 minutes). Don’t crowd the pan, work in batches if
necessary. Turn and lightly brown other side (3­5 minutes). Remove thighs to a plate and set them aside.
4. Lower the heat to medium and if the chicken has released a lot of fat, remove most of it, leaving about a
tablespoon and a half. Add onions and cook until just soft, 4­5 minutes. Add garlic and stir for one minute
more. Add flour and stir it into the onions, cook for 1­2 minutes. Whisk in the wine and let it simmer for 3
minutes while scraping up any brown bits with a wooden spoon. Whisk in the broth, honey, lemon juice and
zest and bring to a simmer. Taste sauce for seasoning, add salt and pepper as needed. Stir in half the basil
and add back the chicken, skin­side up and place it, uncovered, into the oven. Cook for 25­35 minutes, or
until chicken is cooked through (165º F / 74º C on an instant read thermometer). Sprinkle over the rest of the
basil, garnish with sliced lemons and serve.
Recipe by Nerds with Knives at http://nerdswithknives.com/chicken-with-lemon-garlic-and-basil/