Gangnam-style chicken wings
Serves 4   Approx time: 115   Difficulty: super easy

Ingredients

8 higher-welfare chicken wings
2 tablespoons hot chilli sauce
150 ml fresh cloudy apple juice
2 tablespoons runny honey
2 tablespoons sweet miso
1 thumb-sized piece of fresh ginger, peeled and finely grated
3 cloves of garlic, peeled and finely grated
8 spring onions, trimmed and finely sliced
3 tablespoons sesame seeds
½ a bunch of fresh coriander
1 fresh red chilli, finely sliced

Method

Soak 8 small bamboo skewers in water for at least an hour before you start cooking, to stop them from catching. Preheat the oven to 170°C/325°F/gas 3. Cut the tips from the wings and stretch them out as much as possible, then push a skewer through the length of each wing to straighten and secure.

Add the hot chilli sauce, apple juice, honey, miso, ginger, garlic and half of the spring onions to a roasting tray (roughly 25cm x 30cm). Mix well to combine, then transfer half the sauce to a small pan and set aside.

Place the chicken skewers into the roasting tray, turning them in the sauce to coat, then cover the tray with tin foil, making sure it's tightly sealed around the edges. Place in the hot oven for around 1 hour 30 minutes, or until lightly golden and cooked through, removing the foil for the final 15 minutes. Meanwhile, place a small frying pan over a medium heat, add the sesame seeds and toast gently for 1 to 2 minutes, or until golden. Set aside.

When the chicken is done, place the pan of sauce over a low heat for around 5 minutes, or until thickened to a nice consistency, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, place a griddle pan over a high heat, then add the skewers and griddle for 3 to 4 minutes, or until crisp and dark, turning halfway – you may need to do this in batches.

Transfer the wings to a serving platter, pouring over any juices from the tray. Drizzle with the sauce, then pick over the coriander leaves. Top with the remaining spring onions, fresh chilli and toasted sesame seeds.

http://www.jamieoliver.com/recipes/chicken-recipes/gangnam-style-chicken-wings/