Harissa­Lime Chicken and Couscous Skillet
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
¼ cup harissa paste, plus more for sauce
2 teaspoons cumin
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground coriander
¼ teaspoon cinnamon
¼ teaspoon black pepper
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 2" chunks
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 white onion, chopped
6 cloves garlic, minced
3 limes
1 tablespoon butter
2½ cups chicken stock, divided
1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas, drained and rinsed
1½ cups dry couscous
1 cup golden raisins (optional)
⅓ cup toasted pine nuts (optional)
½ cup plain greek yogurt
Fresh herbs, such as cilantro, dill, parsley, and/or mint, chopped, to top
Directions
1. In a large, sealable plastic bag, combine the harissa paste, cumin, salt, coriander, cinnamon, and black pepper. Mix well. Add in the chicken breasts and toss to coat. Seal and refrigerate for at least one hour, or overnight.
2. In a large skillet over medium high heat, heat the olive oil. Once the oil is hot, remove the chicken from the bag and add it to the skillet. Cook the chicken until browned, turning occasionally, about 4 minutes.
3. Slice two of the limes and add the slices to the skillet, along with the onion and garlic. Cook until the chicken is cooked through but not dry, about 5 more minutes. Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside. Tent with foil to keep the chicken warm.
4. Add the butter and 1⅔ cups of chicken stock to the pan and bring it to a boil. Stir in the chickpeas, golden raisins, and couscous. Cover the skillet and remove it from the heat. Let sit, covered, for 5 minutes, so that the couscous absorbs the liquid.
5. Meanwhile, mix the greek yogurt with additional harissa paste, to taste, and season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
6. Fluff the couscous with a fork and mix in the pine nuts, the juice of the remaining lime, and additional chicken stock, as needed, for moisture. Top with the chicken and then drizzle over the harissa yogurt. Sprinkle with herbs and serve.
Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/harissa-lime-chicken-and-couscous-skillet/