Indian-Spiced Cauliflower Soup
SERVINGS: 4 HEARTY DINNER PORTIONSTIME: 1 HOUR, WITH PREP

This recipe is adapted, just a little, from Madhur Jaffrey’s excellent Vegetarian India. She has nearly three different preparations for every vegetable in the book, and you should not miss it if you love Indian cooking. She describes this soup as a simple one she loved as a child. “It reminds me of Indian hotel soups in the waning years of the Raj,” she writes, which makes me want to sit down for tea with her and beg her for more stories. (Sadly, the times I’ve met her I’ve been too starstruck to say more than hello and a few squeaks about loving her work.)
Don’t miss the final squeeze of lime juice — it’s everything here.

Without a swirl of cream or dollop of yogurt (both optional and neither have any significant impact), this soup is vegan.

My sole regret is not doubling this. As in, I’ve already gone back to the market this morning for more potatoes and cauliflower so I can make more later. Don’t let this happen to you.


SOUP

2 tablespoons olive or peanut oil
1/2 teaspoon whole cumin seeds
1/4 teaspoon whole fennel seeds
1 medium onion, peeled and chopped
1 medium potato (about 6 ounces), peeled and chopped
2 teaspoons peeled and chopped fresh ginger
2 cloves garlic, peeled and chopped
1 fresh hot green chili, chopped (more or less to taste)
2 teaspoons ground coriander
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric
1/4 teaspoon red chili powder or cayenne (to taste)
About 3 1/2 cups cauliflower florets (from about 1/2 a large 2.75-pound head)
2 medium tomatoes, peeled and chopped or 1 1/2 cups canned chopped tomatoes
1 1/2 teaspoons salt, or to taste (we wanted more)
TO FINISH (ALL OPTIONAL)

A couple spoonfuls heavy cream or dollops of yogurt
1/2 cup cooked basmati or other long-grain white rice
Handful of fresh cilantro, chopped
Freshly ground black pepper
Lime wedges
Toasted pita or naan wedges

Heat oil in the bottom of a 4 to 5-quart pot over medium-high heat. Once hot, add the cumin seeds and a few seconds later, the fennel seeds. Pause 2 seconds and then add the onions and potatoes. Stir and sauté for 5 minutes. Add the ginger, garlic and green chiles and stir for 1 minute more.
Turn the heat to medium low and add the ground coriander, cumin, turmeric and red pepper. Stir for 1 minute. Add the cauliflower, tomatoes and salt and stir for 1 minute. Add 4 cups water, stir, and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Cover, lower the heat again, and simmer gently for 25 minutes.

Let the soup cool slightly, then blend it to your desired texture. Taste for seasoning and adjust as needed. Ladle into bowls and add a dollop of yogurt or tiny swirl (about 1/2 teaspoon) heavy cream, if desired. Squeeze lime juice over, add a few grinds of black pepper and place 2 tablespoons cooked rice to the center of each bowl. Scatter with cilantro and serve with pita wedges on the side, if desired. Dig in.

https://smittenkitchen.com/2016/09/indian-spiced-cauliflower-soup/