Korean Chicken and Kimchi­Fried Rice Bowls
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
For the Marinated Chicken:
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons sesame oil
2 teaspoons brown sugar
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons minced ginger
4 scallions, finely chopped
Ground black pepper, to taste
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breast, thinly sliced
For the Kimchi­Fried Rice:
Vegetable oil
1 cup chopped kimchi, plus ½ cup kimchi juices
¼ cup gochujang
3 cups steamed rice
2 teaspoons sesame oil
To top:
2­3 sunny­side up eggs (or eggs cooked to your liking)
1 sheet dried seaweed, sliced into matchsticks
6 baby rainbow carrots, cut into matchsticks
Scallion and/or cilantro, chopped, to taste
Toasted sesame seeds, to taste
Gochujang, to taste, (optional)
Directions
1. In a sealable plastic back, combine all of the chicken marinade ingredients. Place the chicken in the
marinade, seal, and refrigerate until ready to cook, at least one hour.
2. While the chicken marinates, prepare the Kimchi­Fried Rice. Heat a teaspoon of vegetable oil in a pan or wok
over medium­high heat.
3. Make sure that the kimchi is as drained of liquids as possible (but reserve them!) and add it to the pan. Stir
fry for about 2 minutes, or until the kimchi begins to caramelize.
4. In a small bowl, mix together the ½ cup of kimchi juices and the gochujang. Add it to the pan with the kimchi.
Mix in the rice.
5. Cook the rice mixture until no longer liquidy and the rice is beginning to crisp, about 8­10 minutes. Remove
from heat and mix in the sesame oil. Transfer the rice to bowls and set aside.
6. In the same skillet, add a tablespoon of vegetable oil and heat over medium­high heat. Remove the chicken
from marinade. Cook and stir chicken until no longer pink and fully cooked through, about 6­8 minutes. Place
the chicken on top of the rice.
7. Top with eggs, seaweed, carrots, scallion, cilantro, sesame seeds, and gochujang, as desired. Serve warm.
Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/korean-chicken-and-kimchi-fried-rice-bowls/