Reddit Chili

Ingredients
Large chopped onion
4 cloves garlic
500g(ish) of braising beef steak (or chuck beef)
1 green bell pepper
Frozen sweetcorn
Can of kidney beans
Can of chopped tomatoes
Beef stock
2tsp soy sauce
2tbsp tomato paste
2 anchovie fillets
1tbsp marmite
1 heaped tbsp ground roast coffee
About 30g dark chocolate, dark as you can get, chopped
Splash of vodka (or bourbon)
Splash of cider or white vinegar
1tbsp of decent smoke paprika
Seeded and toasted dried chipotle peppers (also cascabel, arbol, pequin, mexico red, calfornia or whatever else chillis you can find)
Fresh jalepenos and bird chillis to taste
1.5tbsp cumin (roast and grind your own for best)
1.5tbsp coriander (as above)
2 whole cloves roast and ground (or 1/4tbsp ground)
1 star anise roast and ground
2 bay leaves
1tbsp dried oregano
2 tbsp brown sugar or molasses
Freshly ground black pepper
Salt
Vegetable oil for frying
Method
If you haven’t toasted your dry chillis yet, do that first but don’t let them smoke. Then remove them and get half a pint of stock hot in a pan, add them back in and soften for about five mins
Take this off the stove and put it in a blender. Blend it up with the anchovies, tomato paste, soy sauce, coffee, chocolate and marmite.
In pan fry onion and garlic, then fine chop bell pepper and add steak sliced finely. Add fresh chillis chopped and seeded. Brown the meat.
Add paprika, cumin, coriander, cloves, star anise, oregano, salt and black pepper. Stick until aromatic.
Add chilli paste and a little stock to top it up if a bit dry and cook on low for about an hour with the lid just off.
Add beans, tomatoes, corn and fresh chillies, give it a good old stir and add some more stock if you need.
Cook with lid just off until almost ready, about 2.5 – 3.5 hours
Add vinegar, vodka, brown sugar, hot sauce and a little more salt and pepper, stir round briefly then take off heat.
Cornbread was adapted from a recipe posted on reddit and the chilli has its base in an Alton Brown recipe I think.

http://www.reddit.com/r/Cooking/comments/39rzhr/we_all_cook_here_so_what_is_that_one_recipe_you/cs61mwd