Sun Dried Tomato Basil Chicken Meatballs with Creamy Parmesan Rice
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
For the Creamy Parmesan Rice:
5 tablespoons butter
3 cloves garlic, minced
1½ cups uncooked rice
1½ cups water
1½ cups milk, plus more, if necessary
½ cup parmesan cheese, shredded or grated, plus more to top
For the Sun Dried Tomato Basil Chicken Meatballs:
1 pound ground chicken
1 egg, beaten
3 cloves garlic, minced
½ cup sun­dried tomatoes, chopped, plus more to top
¼ cup fresh basil leaves, chopped, plus more to top
¼ cup seasoned breadcrumbs
1 teaspoon onion powder
¼ teaspoon kosher salt
⅛ teaspoon black pepper
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 tablespoon olive oil
Directions
1. Start by preparing the rice. Melt 5 tablespoons of butter in a medium­sized pot over medium heat. Add the
garlic and saute until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in the rice, making sure all of the rice gets coated in the
butter. Slowly pour in the water and milk, and then bring the pot to a boil. Let boil for 1 minute, then reduce to
a low simmer. Cover and cook until the rice is tender, about 20 minutes. Stir in the parmesan cheese, as well
as salt and pepper to taste. If the rice is too dry, add milk, a bit at a time, until it reaches the correct
consistency. Recover and set aside until the meatballs are ready.
2. As the rice cooks, make the meatballs. In a large bowl, mix together the ground chicken, egg, 3 cloves of
garlic, sun­dried tomatoes, basil, seasoned breadcrumbs, onion powder, ¼ teaspoon kosher salt, and ⅛
teaspoon black pepper. Once well­combined, form into about 30 small meatballs.
3. Melt the butter with the oil in a large pan over medium­high heat. Add the meatballs to the pan and let cook
until well­browned on the bottom, about 3 minutes, without turning. Then, turn the meatballs and repeat until all
sides are browned and the meatballs are cooked through.
4. Serve the rice and meatballs warm, with extra sun­dried tomatoes, basil, and parmesan on top.
Recipe by Host The Toast at http://hostthetoast.com/sun-dried-tomato-basil-chicken-meatballs-with-creamy-parmesan-rice/