Thin and Crispy Pizza Crust

Author: Adapted from thekitchen.com
Total Cost: $0.59
Cost Per Serving: $0.30 per pizza
Serves: 2 12­inch pizzas
Ingredients
¾ cup warm water $0.00
½ tsp sugar $0.01
2 tsp (or one 2.25oz. packet) yeast $0.19
2 cups all­purpose flour (plus more for dusting) $0.34
1½ tsp salt $0.05
Instructions
1. Adjust the oven rack to its highest position. Preheat the oven to 500 degrees, or its highest setting.
2. Dissolve the sugar and yeast into the warm water and let it sit until foamy (about 5 minutes).
3. While the yeast is soaking, combine the flour and salt in a separate large bowl. Stir until the salt is evenly
mixed into the flour.
4. Pour the yeast water into the bowl of flour, then stir with a wooden spoon until a shaggy dough forms.
Use your hands to further form the dough into a ball, then turn it out onto a lightly floured surface and
knead for about three minutes, or until the dough is smooth and cohesive. Lightly dust your work surface
with flour to keep the dough from sticking as you work.
5. Let the dough rest for 5 minutes. Divide it into two equal portions and form each piece into a ball. If you
do not wish to make two pizzas immediately, the second ball of dough can be wrapped in plastic and stored
in the refrigerator for up to two days, or frozen for up to 3 months.
6. Press the dough down into a flattened circular disk, then use a rolling pin to roll it out into a thin circle,
about 12 inches in diameter and ⅛ inch thick.
7. Prepare a pizza pan with either non­stick spray or a combination of spray and cornmeal, then carefully
place the dough onto the pan. Spread a thin layer of your favorite sauce over the surface, then bake in the
preheated oven for 5 minutes, or just until the edges develop a hint of color.
8. Remove the crust from the oven, add the rest of your toppings, then bake for an additional 7­10 minutes,
or until the cheese is bubbly and the crust is a medium golden brown.

Recipe by Budget Bytes at http://www.budgetbytes.com/2015/06/thin­and­crispy­pizza­crust/