Zuppa Toscana
Ingredients:
1 lb. hot Italian sausage
2 or 3 onions, chopped
2 or 3 Russet potatoes
3 or 4 cloves garlic, minced
Kale, fresh or frozen
1 cup heavy whipping cream
32 oz. chicken broth
2 cups water
salt to taste
Directions:
peel and chop up the garlic cloves
peel and dice two large onions or three medium-sized ones
wash but do not peel two or three good-sized Russet potatoes
cut them lengthwise in half, then in half again
cut in thin slices, place in a large bowl
rinse thoroughly, then cover the potatoes with water to prevent browning
In a dutch oven, brown a pound of hot sausage. Using hot sausage negates the need to add red pepper to the soup. (Depending on where you live, this could be packaged by the meat dept. at your grocer, or it may come in a plastic tube-o-meat such as by Jimmy Dean, or you may have to buy a package of hot Italian sausages and skin them. Certain types may leave a reddish/orange film on top of the soup. This is OK, it's from the red pepper in it. Other sausage leaves no film.) Continuously chop the meat with a sturdy spatula or egg turner as it's browning to break it up into bits as small as possible.
When browned, add the potatoes, onions and garlic.
Pour in 32 oz. of chicken broth
Add two cups of water
Cover and bring to a boil, then turn down to medium and cook for 30 minutes to soften the potatoes.
At 30 minutes in, add 2 cups of fresh kale, de-veined and de-stemmed, cut in ribbons, or use 1 1/2 cups frozen kale
Add the whipping cream. Stir. Bring back to a boil and then simmer. If fresh kale is used, cook for a further 15 minutes. If frozen kale is used, cook for five minutes.
At this point, add salt to taste. Kosher salt is good. Try to find the sweet spot where it's just enough so that no one will need to add more, but there isn't already too much. The broth needs to be a bit salty.
Serves one. No, seriously, it's a dutch oven full of soup. Serves few, or serves many. Heat up the remainder the next day. Enjoy!
https://www.reddit.com/r/recipes/comments/3f5ml8/zuppa_toscana_just_like_at_that_restaurant_but/