Brandy Peppercorn Sauce with Parmesan
Brandy Peppercorn Sauce with Parmesan. THE sauce to take many favorite foods such as pork, chicken, pasta, hamburger and salad from great to amazing.
Author: Susie Gall
Recipe type: Beef Steak or Beef Tenderloin Sauce
Serves: 6­8
Ingredients
2 tablespoons butter, unsalted
¼ cup minced shallot or sweet yellow onion
Pan­drippings from seared steak or beef tenderloin, if available.*
¾ cup brandy or cognac – divided into ½ cup and ¼ cup. (The ¼ cup will be used to deglaze the drippings
from the seared beef.)
¾ cup chicken stock
4 small sprigs fresh thyme
1½ cups heavy cream
1 beef cube or 1­2 teaspoons beef granules (per taste)
2­4 teaspoons freshly cracked black pepper, per taste
¼ cup finely grated Parmigiano­Reggiano or Parmesan cheese
Kosher salt to taste.
2­4 tablespoons extra cream, if needed
Optional and only add if needed: 1 tablespoon corn starch and 2 tablespoons cold water mixed together to thicken.
Instructions
1. Over medium­low heat, melt butter in a 3­quart saucepan. Add shallot and cook until translucent and tender, approximately 2­3 minutes.
2. Remove the pan from the heat.
3. Add ½ cup brandy and any de­glazed pan drippings from the seared steak or beef tenderloin, if available.
4. Return the pan to med­high heat and boil the butter, shallot, chicken stock, beef cube (or beef granules), brandy, thyme and pan­drippings mixture until liquid is reduced by half, 15­20 minutes.
5. Remove the thyme sprigs.
6. Lower the heat and add­in the heavy cream and black pepper. Keep mixture at a gentle boil, stirring occasionally, until the sauce is reduced and is the thicker than heavy cream. 10­20 minutes.
7. Remove the mixture from the heat and whisk in grated cheese.
8. Once cheese has melted, season with more pepper if needed and salt, to taste.
9. Serve with Filet of Beef or Beef Tenderloin.
10. Enjoy!
Notes
*Sauce can be made up to three days ahead. When ready to use, reheat the sauce slowly in a small saucepan over medium­low heat.
**Sauce can be made with or without pan drippings – also the pan­drippings can be added even if the sauce is made ahead. After the beef is seared, deglaze the pan with ¼ cup brandy then add the deglazed drippings to the already prepared sauce. Bring the sauce to a low boil and cook five minutes or until the sauce has thickened again.
***Keep leftover sauce refrigerated and in an air­tight container.
Recipe by Simply Sated at http://www.simplysated.com/brandy-peppercorn-sauce-parmesan/