Tish Boyle's Chocolate Chip Cookie
Ingredients

    2 cups (250 g) All-Purpose Flour
    1 tsp. Baking Soda
    1 tsp. Baking Powder
    1 tsp. Salt
    3/4 cup (67 g) Old-Fashioned Rolled Oats
    2 1/2 cups (425 g) Semisweet Chocolate Chips, divided
    2 sticks plus 2 TBS (251 g) Unsalted Butter, softened
    3/4 cup (163 g) Sugar
    3/4 cup (153 g) Light Brown Sugar, firmly packed
    2 tsp. Vanilla Extract
    2 Large Eggs

Instructions

    1
    Position a rack near the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
    2
    Sift together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into a medium bowl. In the bowl of a food processor, combine the oats and 1/2 cup (84 g) of the chocolate chips and process until finely ground, about 45 seconds. Stir the oat mixture into the flour mixture and set aside.
    3
    In the bowl of an electric mixer, using the paddle attachment, beat the butter, sugars, and vanilla extract at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes. Beat in the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary. At low speed, add the dry ingredients, mixing just until combined. Using a wooden spoon, stir in the remaining 2 cups of chocolate chips.
    4
    With a small ice cream scoop (about 1 tablespoon's worth), scoop out the dough onto the baking sheet placing them 2 inches apart.
    5
    Bake the cookies for 10 to 12 minutes, just until golden. Be sure to switch the cookie sheet around halfway through baking. Let them sit on the cookie tray for 1 minute before carefully placing them on a cooling rack.

Notes

    Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to a week. Uncooked dough can stay in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, and in the freezer for up to 3 months.

Special equipment needed

    Electric mixer
    2 baking sheets
    Parchment paper
    Food processor
    Small ice cream scoop
	
http://www.projectpastrylove.com/tish-boyles-chocolate-chip-cookie/