Crispy­Outside Creamy­Inside Garlic Herb Potatoes
Author: Morgan
Ingredients
1½ pounds baby Yukon Gold potatoes (baby red potatoes also work well)
1 sprig rosemary
3 sprigs thyme
2 cups low sodium chicken broth, plus ½ cup more if necessary
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons butter, divided
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more for topping
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped
Directions
1. In a 10" nonstick skillet, arrange the baby potatoes so that they fit together neatly but with a bit extra room. You'll have to flatten them out later, so they need a little space.
2. Add in the rosemary, thyme, chicken broth, olive oil, 1 tablespoon butter, and kosher salt. Heat the pan to high and bring to a boil. Once the broth boils, reduce the heat to medium, add in the garlic, and (almost) cover the skillet, leaving a very small opening for excess steam to escape. Make sure the broth continues to boil for 20 minutes, or until the potatoes are easily punctured with a fork.
3. If the liquid has all absorbed, add the additional ½ cup of chicken broth. You could also use water here if you don't have enough broth, or a combination of the two. You want the liquid to cover about ⅓ way up the potatoes at this point.
4. Remove the pan from the heat and use a meat mallet, wooden spoon, or back of a measuring cup to press down on the tops of the potatoes lightly until the skin cracks and they flatten out a bit.
5. Return the potatoes to high heat, uncovered, and cook until the liquid evaporates and the potatoes are browned on the bottom, about 12 minutes.
6. Remove the potatoes from heat again, turn the potatoes, scrape up any burnt bits, and add the last tablespoon of butter to the pan. Press the other sides of the potatoes to crack and flatten them more if necessary. Sprinkle the potatoes with parsley and cook until the other side is browned, about 5 minutes. 
7. Serve warm and sprinkled with salt.

http://hostthetoast.com/crispy-outside-creamy-inside-garlic-herb-potatoes/