Southern Tomato Pie

Ingredients

    1 (10 inch) deep dish pie crust, partially baked
    3 medium sized tomatoes, sliced (about 18 slices)
    Kosher salt
    2 slices of bacon, cooked and crumbled, divided
    1 small Vidalia or other sweet onion, quartered and sliced thin (about 1 cup)
    3 cups of shredded mozzarella, divided
    Pinch of granulated sugar, optional
    Freshly cracked black pepper, to taste
    Garlic powder, to taste
    2 tablespoons of chopped fresh basil
    1 cup of regular mayonnaise (do not substitute low fat or fat free)
    1/2 teaspoon hot sauce • 1/8 cup of chopped fresh parsley

Instructions

    Place the uncooked pie crust in a glass, deep dish pie pan, turning the edges under and 1/2 inch over the top of the pie plate to crimp; dock crust with a fork in several places. Bake in a preheated 400 degree F oven for 15 to 20 minutes or until the crust is dry looking and just beginning to lightly brown. Set aside to cool completely.

    Meanwhile, line a baking sheet with two layers of paper towels. Slice the tomatoes about 1/4 inch thick and lay them out on the paper towels to drain. Sprinkle tomatoes with salt and cover with another layer of paper towels. Let tomatoes rest for 30 minutes while you prepare the bacon and onions. Cook the bacon fairly crisp, remove, set aside and sauté the onions in the bacon drippings until tender, but not browned.

    Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Add half a cup of the mozzarella cheese to the bottom of the cooled pie crust. Knock excess seeds off of tomato slices and top cheese with half of the tomatoes. Sprinkle lightly with sugar if using, then season to taste with the black pepper and garlic powder. Add half of the basil, top with half of the onions, and half of the bacon. Sprinkle a half cup of the cheese on top. Repeat layers, except omit the last layer of cheese.

    In a small bowl, mix together the mayonnaise, hot sauce, parsley and the remaining 2 cups of cheese; spread evenly over the top. Bake at 350 degrees F for about 40 to 45 minutes, or until bubbly and light golden brown on top. Shield edges of pie crust if it is browning too quickly. Let pie cool to room temperature before slicing, using a serrated knife. Best served warm, but also very good cold. Store any leftovers in the refrigerator.

Tomato pie can be served as a main dish with a garden salad and a side of seasonal fruit, or as a side on a veggie plate, or along with any main dish protein such as pork, beef, chicken or seafood.

Cook's Notes: Times are estimates as ovens vary. Can also use a combination of cheeses - mozzarella with cheddar, swiss, pepper jack, monterey jack, are all good choices to mix, but always use majority mozzarella. May also use part Parmesan cheese for some of the cheese in the top dressing. May substitute a teaspoon of dried basil and parsley for the fresh herbs and/or use sliced green onion in place of the sweet onion. May also be made with green tomatoes.

https://old.reddit.com/r/recipes/comments/c4whdb/southern_tomato_pie/