Peanut Butter Swirled Brownies
SERVINGS: 16TIME: 45 MINUTES

I always bake with a smooth commercial brand of peanut butter but I don’t see why this recipe wouldn’t work with more natural ones; you might find you want a bit more salt.
I realize that the sugar level seems high here but promise it won’t taste excessively so. Unsweetened chocolate requires a lot more sugar than sweetened would, and the peanut butter volume here is substantial enough that it needs to be sweetened as well. Don’t forget the salt, however; it brings out the flavor of the peanuts and adds a great accent to the whole pan.


PEANUT BUTTER BATTER

3/4 cup (190 grams) smooth peanut butter
2/3 (135 grams) cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extra
A few pinches of flaky or coarse sea salt
BROWNIE BATTER

3 ounces (85 grams) unsweetened chocolate, roughly chopped
1/2 cup (115 grams or 4 ounces) unsalted butter, plus extra for pan
1 1/4 cups (250 grams) granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon (5 ml) vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon flaky or heaped 1/4 teaspoon of coarse sea salt
2/3 cup (85 grams) all-purpose flour
TO FINISH

1/4 cup (40 grams) semi- or bittersweet chocolate chips

Heat oven: To 350°F (175°C).
Line an 8-inch square baking pan with parchment and coat the bottom and sides with nonstick cooking spray or butter.

Make peanut butter batter: Whisk all ingredients in a bowl until smooth.

Make brownie batter: In a medium heatproof bowl over gently simmering water, melt chocolate and butter together until only a couple unmelted bits remain. Off the heat, stir until smooth and fully melted. You can also do this in the microwave in 30-second bursts, stirring between each. Whisk in sugar, then eggs, one at a time, then vanilla and salt. Stir in flour with a spoon or flexible spatula.

Assemble brownies: Spread a thin layer of brownie batter (about 1/3 of total batter, but no need to be exact) in bottom of prepared baking pan. Dollop peanut butter batter all over in big spoonfuls. Dollop remaining brownie batter in pan, aiming, if you can, between the peanut butter dollops. Use a butter knife to swirl the batters together in loose figure-8s. Sprinkle chips all over.

Bake: For 30 to 35 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out batter-free.

To keep: Brownies keep well at room temperature, in the fridge or freezer.

https://smittenkitchen.com/2017/03/peanut-butter-swirled-brownies/